Serenna Beers: Good morning.
Michael J: Good morning.
Serenna Beers: Good.
Serenna Beers: Happy Monday.
Yeah.
Serenna Beers: So I have a group with you. Correct. I, yeah, I do.
Michael J: Um, yeah, you're. Yeah. Dr. Alan DAG dagger.
Michael J: That's right.
Serenna Beers: Okay, I, I knew I recognized your face and your and your
Serenna Beers: Galaxy name.
Michael J: Yeah.
Michael J: Well, I, I'm I run a nonprofit and in our town, and we do life recovery classes and it's also a rescue mission and
Michael J: I founded that 15 years ago. And so, pretty much. I know everybody in town and matter of fact, the last meeting we had on Thursday. There was a guy from Crescent City in the meeting, and I'm on Suboxone for pain management.
Michael J: Not for addiction issues.
Serenna Beers: Huh, yeah.
Michael J: So that's one of the one of the battles we were having i i do have private meetings. Now,
Serenna Beers: Okay, so are you no longer going to be inside of our groups.
Michael J: I won't. I mean, I
Michael J: Cried there was actually somebody that I knew personally on
Michael J: One of the meeting.
Michael J: And and I shut out and I emailed Dr. Our dad told her what happened and that I actually new person. And it's a small nonprofit.
Michael J: We are just recently this year.
Michael J: grant funded but but there's two nonprofits that share the same space.
Michael J: And when a
Michael J: When a secular
Michael J: Mission Possible. It's called and that is to get us our building. We were supposed to shut down April 15
Michael J: Or for two and a half months while they did $200,000 worth of work to our building for facility which was going to put us in the 52 bed rescue mission facility and
Michael J: We still got our money and stuff like that. We got approval letter for the grant.
Michael J: But in a crisis mode.
Michael J: DHS has the ability to pull some of that money if they need it so
Michael J: We have built relationships and stuff. And we're not really too worried about it. We're still going to get it. But everything is absolutely you know pushed out probably another six months or so.
So,
Michael J: But it will happen.
Michael J: So that kind of what it is. And then, so the two nonprofits.
Michael J: My Nonprofit that I've had for 15 years is privately funded and listen possible is grant funded
Michael J: So it's not like
Michael J: I'm going to benefit a lot. I mean, will benefit.
Michael J: Obviously our buildings going to get $200,000 upgrade and things like that. It's going to start happening and benefit in that way. And they'll pay perhaps utilities and get their own urine.
Michael J: There'll be benefits for us in that but scandal, like, you know, everybody thinks immediately appear on Suboxone you're an opiate addict.
And
Michael J: I was an addict for
Michael J: 17 years I was a meth addict. Yeah. And I got a deliverance, which I don't know if you're familiar with what a deliverance says, but I'm no longer I celebrated my 21st year last November of sobriety off of math.
Serenna Beers: Good for you.
Michael J: So, you know, we don't want any scandal happening. My wife is getting her associate's degree next year, she's on Suboxone as well. And she is for addiction. Basically, but we're gonna or five year plan is to build a new facility and turn our old facility into a 30 bed rehab.
Michael J: And she's going to be the director of that.
Michael J: Program. And so, you know, and we live in Mayberry basically our town is very small. And it's probably the third or fourth poorest city in the state. So pretty much
Michael J: You probably have a lot of people from custom city on the Suboxone program. And so we're just trying to keep a deal on it, you know.
Serenna Beers: Yeah, and and I totally understand as far as
Serenna Beers: It's almost like the stigma that goes with it. You know, I totally as a therapist. I totally understand and some of the folks that
Serenna Beers: That you work with are some of the hardest critics, you know, and so I told I totally get that. But I do believe in therapy and I do believe like just like my
Serenna Beers: Mindset of a good therapist has a therapist like therapy. It's really sad. It really gets a bad rap. And I don't care who you are. How far up the food chain that you are everybody can benefit from some sort of
Serenna Beers: Therapy. It just, it's just good. It's good to be able to talk to somebody who can be objective. It's good to be able to talk to somebody who who doesn't know all your history so that they don't have a subjective point of view and an emotional attachment and so
Serenna Beers: The fact that you're not going to do groups openly. I totally understand. But I do hope that you're going to continue on with therapy at I think it's twice a month at least or something or once a month, that depends on what you discuss with Dr. Alan DAG.
Serenna Beers: Right.
Michael J: Yeah, and I have a meeting with her tomorrow. And you're absolutely right. The best recovery counselors or or former addicts, I believe.
Michael J: And you know the 15 years of marriage successful marriage has included about 10 years of marriage counseling.
Michael J: And we still
Michael J: We still get counseling occasionally because
Serenna Beers: It really
Michael J: It really helped Mary July, you know, me and my wife. So we've been through.
Michael J: Some rough roads, of course, everybody does up and coming
Michael J: You know, we all go through it.
Serenna Beers: I'm not trying to
Michael J: Say that we're special. I'm just saying that through marriage counseling is what gave me the pointers and kept her marriage, you know, good.
Serenna Beers: So are well. So then, with, with this bio psychosocial I know you're probably familiar with it. I just ask you a bunch of questions and
Serenna Beers: you've kind of taken well so you will have a little history with substances, even though you're not with us for substance abuse. Obviously we collect a history and then we can discuss, you know, things that maybe you might want to work on.
Serenna Beers: Because a again, you know, I've, I swear I'm an I'm trying to improve myself every day. I just bought this new book that's called the power of the mind.
Serenna Beers: I also bought this book called stop your stupid shit that's really the name of the book and you know because
Serenna Beers: I, it seems like it's a really cool cool book and I, you know, for, especially in this time with all the stuff that's going on that's happening in the world if anybody's ever battled depression or
Serenna Beers: Anxiety. I mean, those little things can start
Serenna Beers: rearing their ugly little head. And so to keep those things at bay. There's things like self help. There's things like meetings. There's things like this. And so
Serenna Beers: I, I think it's great, though, that you kept in an open mind and said, while I need to protect myself and what I do for a living.
Serenna Beers: I also know that I need this. So let's try to find a different ways so that's awesome.
Serenna Beers: So tell me your story then so so I'm just going to run down the list and this usually takes about 20 minutes and I just
Serenna Beers: I want to start with just tell me your story with substances. I know you said that used to have an issue with math. Tell me when you first used at what point it got really bad and how it had progress to the point where you knew that you needed some help.
Michael J: Well, it's funny you say that. So my first thing, and I'm remember the cycle was yesterday. This is the weirdest part is I was well first I was raised in a
Michael J: Alcohol was always an acceptable drug in our family, a full blown working successful alcoholic family.
Michael J: All the way back to the 1900s chase it on down.
Michael J: Total dysfunctional family.
Michael J: Verbal abuse, physical abuse. I was molested that I
Michael J: was molested at the age of sex by a woman and were sexually active every point on after that. Now, I thank God every day because I'm not
Michael J: Gay that it was a woman. And when I told my wife, the story and she she was a rape victim and been through the block herself. She literally was weeping, you know, because me personally, being a man
Michael J: That so she was bawling. And the fact that molest as a molested don't matter if it's a girl or a boy and I totally get that I can, I can relate and I have children and and and i do relate to that.
Michael J: It was bad for me.
Michael J: Um,
Michael J: Where wAS I GOING AND SOMETIMES I rabbit trail, forgive me for that.
Serenna Beers: And and and I and I totally get that. So we were just
Serenna Beers: Talking about the story of your, of your use when it, when you were first exposed and how it progressed to the point where you knew that you needed to get help.
Michael J: So I was molested. And so that kind of and then my house. We were never protected when my dad.
Michael J: Would get drunk and violent. My mom went up and run to the bedroom and we were on our own as cats. So I lived in brought up in a, in a, you know, but everybody considered my family as perfect as salt of the earth type people THE NICEST MAN IN THE WORLD AND TELL he came home from work.
Michael J: And he was workaholic, and an alcoholic. So
Michael J: We had that to balance, but I was watching a TV show where this guy escaped and i was i think 13 years old.
Michael J: And he escaped out of a jail. I can Columbia and he was running in the cops and or the militants and their dogs were hot on this trail.
Michael J: And he was just totally were out. He ran like seven miles. Right. And he's done and I feel over and he picks a couple leaves of the tree.
Michael J: And he starts to anonymous sticks it under his tongue, and then he runs like Superman for the next another seven 810 miles. That was my first and clinician. And I'll never forget that of what did he just do whatever he did gave him and he got away and
Michael J: That was my first curiosity to what he did.
Michael J: Why that gave him so much energy and power. And how did he do it that made me wonder, and I asked around until somebody said, Oh, that was coca leaves.
Michael J: That was the first thing. And I remember thinking to myself, I found out. Oh, that'd be cool.
Michael J: You know, that was the very first start. I love me watching a TV show at night watching that guy do that. That made me go huh
Michael J: And when I was 15 I was a I was in a wedding. My cousin's wedding.
Michael J: And like I said, alcohol was acceptable in our family.
Michael J: So I'm 15 years old drunk up my butt supposed to be in the wedding. And I ain't gonna make it because I'm wasted totally to the point where they're dragging me around. So my cousin puts us line out on a mirror and said, you're going to get this up your nose.
Michael J: That was my first experience with math, I get the math align and I was totally normal instantly. And I went, Wow, this is cool and then my course I was my heart rate was going, it was back in the day when it was really good drugs.
Oh,
Serenna Beers: No, I
Serenna Beers: I apologize. I'm moving around. I just need to fix my my chair because it needs to rock.
Yes.
Serenna Beers: My own chronic pain issues. And so it helps
Serenna Beers: Me, I can't find my little knob.
Serenna Beers: Right me just a second. Hang on.
Michael J: Not a problem. Not a problem. And I need a drink water as well. So this works out perfect.
Serenna Beers: Okay, good.
Serenna Beers: There we go.
Serenna Beers: It's not doing it.
Serenna Beers: My son. He fixed my chair and he showed me how to do it. And now I don't know how to do it.
Michael J: You're somebody that understands all that I might shoot from the hip type of guy.
Michael J: It was dumb ever tried to plan something that goes horribly wrong.
Michael J: Well, I just map. It works all every time.
Serenna Beers: Oh yeah, I'm pretty I'm pretty laid back and one of the reasons why I think that
Serenna Beers: This works is, is, you know, not because I don't speak to you, just from an educational experience. I also, you know, everybody's path is different.
Serenna Beers: But the common our commonality that binds me to the patients that I serve is my struggles with with them every day is different in the level of intensity
Serenna Beers: To the point of how it affects your mental, emotional state. You know what I mean, and not some days are better than others. And so yeah, so I appreciate your flexibility so
Serenna Beers: That's when you know good
Michael J: Good drugs Provo all that
Michael J: Number 15 day process to make it and it was literally
Michael J: You know, not nothing like the stuff that they have on the streets today, which is, I call it instant tweak. So you're
Michael J: You do it for one day and you feel like you've been up for 10 days. I used to literally step for 15 days at a time. And people really didn't notice that I was on that because the pH balance was so good it was clean.
Michael J: drugs are drugs. It was disgusting. No matter what you looked at it, but it was a higher quality and didn't have to come down.
Michael J: And you could literally hide yourself behind it for quite some time before people would start recognizing that hey, this guy's on speed so
Michael J: Anyway, that was then. And so I did my first line or two, but in the back of my mind and my psyche. I wanted to know what cocaine was
Michael J: So I met a guy that was a cocaine dealer and I did my first shot of cocaine and
Michael J: Loved that literally like under the tongue I remembered flashback to that that never left my mind, to this day, after all these years of sobriety and although I found math in my thrift store before I turned it over to the police.
Michael J: I see people on it all the time. It doesn't have any control over me anymore. And when I said deliverance, the deliverance that I got.
Michael J: Was I didn't believe in God or wasn't spiritual my parents said hey you should go to church on Sunday. We want you to check it out if you don't like it, you don't have to know more.
Michael J: I went one
Michael J: Said, Okay, that's it for me. I don't want to do that. No more. I was a Lutheran service. And I was like, Okay, so basically I was a non believer in God and all that. And so after
Michael J: Cocaine got too expensive and I couldn't still enough fast enough to
Michael J: Keep me satisfied.
Michael J: I ran into through my criminal behavior ran and do
Michael J: The math guy and got locked into that.
Michael J: And it was cheaper. I could afford it more
Michael J: And then I just. But what it did to me like a lot of people like I'm high strung as you can tell. Now I'm a strong person, people used to tell me, I'd hate to see you on math. Right. Well, when I would do math. It would call me down.
Michael J: It was weird. Yes, I'd get high. And I would talk a mile a minute for a while, but for the most part it was settled me down. So turns out that I was ADHD extreme at a very young age and diagnosed. So
Michael J: Went through all the stuff. Basically, not even knowing that I had so much other stuff in my life. That was crazy.
Michael J: That I didn't even think I ever had anything I really believed, up until my motorcycle wreck that I was, and then some will never going to die. I've never had hep C i use needles with three people that asked him FC. I never caught know STDs. I've never used the condom.
Michael J: My girls of choice were prostitutes for many, many years, and the more sleazier they were the more I was attracted to them.
Michael J: How I did not get noticed TVs did not
Michael J: Contract
Michael J: Have. See, I'm just absolutely like I didn't know. So I didn't know
Michael J: I just thought I was bulletproof. I thought that I could live forever and nothing was ever going to really affect me.
Michael J: When I got in a motorcycle wreck.
Michael J: I guess it was probably like closer to 10 years ago now.
Michael J: No, actually my son's 14 he was on his seventh birthday, so seven years ago, and I was in a real serious motorcycle accident. A didn't have a helmet on. I flipped the bike one by 100 PV
Michael J: ended up in the hospital unconscious and pick up
Serenna Beers: Where your chronic pain.
Serenna Beers: Call comes into play.
Michael J: Okay, net net but middle back and lower lower back is just like totally gone
Michael J: But I learned a lot of stuff through the process because I went on.
Michael J: What do they call it.
Michael J: five milligram Narcos and I was on that for a year and a half, and you know it quit working at Suboxone to me is
Michael J: Absolutely, and I wasn't taking it right in the beginning, either. I would take three strips in the morning and I would suffer paying through the night, and I was totally not sleeping totally waking up, didn't know why.
Michael J: I just done, but it was pain in would wake me up on that roll over in bed until I learned how to take it. You know, I take two steps in the morning and one about four or five o'clock at night.
Michael J: And I sleep. I have my sleep back for last two or three months. I literally sleep like more than I ever have in my whole entire life. And I can't even begin to tell you what that's done for my mind.
Michael J: And I'm 100% pain free.
Michael J: Usually right around four or five o'clock I start having pains.
Michael J: Mm hmm. And then I take that another step and then I am good and I wake up in the morning. I'm in pain getting out of bed. But I sleep. The whole night.
Michael J: I think nine o'clock. It was the latest i'd slept, and I'm usually up at, you know, four or five in the morning and usually the pain would wake me up and I'm the type of person once I wake up fully sometimes that'll happen just from going to the bathroom and coming back.
Michael J: I don't usually go back to sleep. But I've been able to
Michael J: Go to the bathroom, come back. Go to sleep. It is. It is like a miracle for me. And really, I'm so grateful for it because I'm living a pain free life now. So anyway, back to the other.
Michael J: I would take math and turn into the most brazen successful thief, you could ever imagine.
Michael J: I used to steal one car every day.
Michael J: Used to they used to call me marble, Mike. I used to sell 50 cartons of cigarettes a day.
Michael J: 10 bucks a carton back then 500 bucks right there. That's how I supplied my habit.
Michael J: I was into everything criminal, you could think about was a major shoplifter
Michael J: Booster. And it was all driven does literally I would see money and I didn't see money I seen drugs. Mm hmm. I would have. I was making $80,000 cash every six months, I wasn't saved in any of it. I just, the more I made the more better. I love that. Guess who would if he can even say better
Michael J: More drugs. I mean I had so much drugs because everybody wanted me to work for them because I was so successful. And I probably got caught for about a third of what I actually did my whole criminal career. So I was lucky. We'll call it lucky.
Michael J: I think ultimately not catching the STDs.
Michael J: I was in a car wreck and 20 miles an hour, one time and better scratch on my arm about three inches long. That was at
Michael J: Running from the cops. I got away and you know look at it like you know a lot of people when I was, I was always a thrill seeker. So when I was 13
Michael J: We built a homemade raft and we're surfing the waves and a big storm came in at sucked me in three of my buddies out to the ocean or the restarts and helicopters.
Michael J: From the Coast Guard had to come rescue us so always doing stuff people. My dad's friends would be like betting they didn't think I'd love to be 18 and he so that's kind of how about went and
Michael J: I went to prison for I was locked up either in gels or presence for about a long period of time.
Michael J: I have three state numbers.
Michael J: On and when I got my deliverance God totally took the taste of it out of my mouth and within a year. I still had four months left on parole. I started our daily bread ministries. When I cried out to God.
Michael J: I didn't believe existed. And so I was getting loaded behind a rest stop in folks will California which is by Gerber. Well, I don't know where that is.
Serenna Beers: I mean, I'm from Sacramento County, but it's been, I haven't been here for 30 years so
Michael J: I'm sure you've heard of humbled.
Serenna Beers: To fail. Yes.
Michael J: Marijuana capital of the world.
Michael J: So mountain, which is
Michael J: Little Town in between Garber real and Eureka, and those that's kind of where I ended up but
Michael J: So I was going down that road. Here's where I lost it. Remember what was I saying initially
Serenna Beers: We're still on your history.
Michael J: Yeah so prison when two presidents started getting in trouble. They're going to prison.
Michael J: They I did that for in and out for three different state numbers I had
Michael J: Got out once I got my deliverance. A year later, I got my head on straight and I started focusing my energy and stuff.
Michael J: Well, first off, I told God if you take away this addiction. I'll serve you the rest of my life.
Michael J: Soon as I got that I left that part out. I don't know where you're at, spiritually, doesn't really matter. I'm probably one of the most liberal pastors, you'll ever meet. I don't believe in pulling people in, I believe that they'll be drawn in through your testimony or through your fruit.
Michael J: What they say your fruit.
Michael J: What positive going on around you, people will want to come to that. I don't believe in anybody that ever tried to grab me and pull me and because
Michael J: Literally, I was restraining order to get to my parents because they got the blame for everything that was our fault that I was this way and I stole from them. I robbed them I stole from their business. I had literally nowhere to turn my mom tough love green
Michael J: wouldn't take the lead. I sent a letter return to sender. If I tried to make a phone call. I didn't hang up and that went on for a long period of time and
Michael J: Then I, you know, was starving for this thing called Love general love because I burned so many bridges and hurt so many people
Michael J: Everybody did not want nothing to do with me, I'm a super toxic and so I would start rooting for love. So churches were a place where grandma would be their Bible studies or we could get soup and you know bakery goods and and when you're not doing drugs, you're hungry.
Michael J: So I was trying to starve. I was starving for food, but I was also starving for hugs and love and to try to rebuild the single life that I totally self destructed and
Michael J: Many times, so I had a wife and three kids.
Michael J: That I raised that that
Michael J: Were I wasn't in their life. I was a horrible parent. And anyway, I
Michael J: That's where I was, I was this just everything bad seeking to rebuild. How do you rebuild that
Michael J: Yeah, and
Michael J: You know, my, my family. I got what's called a temporary custody leave my dad had cancer and he had
Michael J: 90 days to live. I was in President, my aunt, called the governor. She was up there a little bit with them and got me a what they call a TLC.
Michael J: temporary custody. But I got to go visit my dad I got out of prison and eight hours later, I got arrested didn't make it to my dad's funeral. They spent about 10 grand get me.
Michael J: Out to see my dad and back in was very expensive. And so the rest of the family said we don't want nothing to do with you anymore either.
Michael J: But I think the pain of that because my dad. Finally, when I was 24 years old told me, You know, I'm an alcoholic. He was admitted that I was a horrible father. All I wanted to do is teach you
Michael J: Give you work ethic what she did, and
Michael J: I know how to work hard. I like to work hard.
Michael J: I worked 11 and a half hours yesterday and I don't know if you can see my hands, but I got pain all about me. I've been in my sense truck yesterday for him.
Michael J: At work, and we spent a lot of time on it.
Michael J: 14 year old has a car any
Serenna Beers: Night.
Michael J: Were started working on it and and so that's what I did yesterday. And anyway, so I was starving for live. I turn my back on God. Once I got what I wanted. But he literally took the taste away from me.
Michael J: I never used drugs again after that never use math again after that never use cocaine again after that was done completely
Michael J: Like it was controlling my whole life.
Michael J: I remember probably two months before I got that deliverance that I said well I guess this is my destiny or I am sticking my arm again, you know, doing another shot after seven months clean
Michael J: The House got the job got the car.
Michael J: life's good got the girlfriend and your am doing a shot again. So I remember confessing out loud. I guess this is my destiny. I guess I'm going to die with a needle in my arm.
Michael J: So it wasn't long after that I'm doing shots behind the film will rest area and I felt like my heart was going to explode. And I felt like it wasn't from drugs, although I was doing good drugs.
Michael J: It wasn't the drugs. It was I felt like a spiritual thing. It happened and like God was like at the end of Israel open my next shot was gonna be my last shot. I really believe that
Michael J: And so I cried out to Him and I screamed and yelled, and the only way I can describe that is a woman getting ready to be attacked by a mountain lion. She lets out of blood curdling scream.
Michael J: That's what it was and I screamed at him and I go, I don't believe you exist, but if you do you take away this addiction and I'll serve you the rest of my life.
Michael J: God audibly smoke in my ear. I was only up for two days and I wasn't tweaking, yet he spoke to me in my air audibly and said, dump it out.
Michael J: I dumped I stick my needles in the ground. I don't my drugs on the brown stuff come into the ground and I walked back to my house, which is about a mile and a half.
Michael J: And I remember, I'm not going to be able to eat for a few quite a few days, and I'm not even gonna be able to sleep for days on it and
Michael J: I went home, lay down on my bed went to sleep woke up the next morning I'm at my calendar. I'm eating donuts and drinking some chocolate milk out of the refrigerator thinking, oh my god. Okay, so I had needle marks and abscesses, because when I shoot drugs, it's, it's
Michael J: It's serious so anyway I had bruises abscesses free not from a little bit of messes and
Michael J: I had been shooting dope two days. So I had a long sleeve white shirt on rolled up with blood stains on it. That was still there, but I remember going oh my god I'm eating. I'm drinking. But I remember
Michael J: You know I slept till I was I was weird. And so I start pulling up my sleeves and all my abscesses. We're gone all my needle marks are still blood on my arms.
Michael J: From whenever I shot.
Michael J: There are still blood on my shirt and the only thing I had was one part where I shoot, I had one little red.mm
Michael J: Hmm, and I believe that to be you know God took away all that to let me know that what really happened, really happened and I was totally
Michael J: mystified I remember I went over to the bar and Garber Ville and Humboldt County. They hate tweak things they love on ads, but they hate speakers and I was accepted there because I I worked for the two richest guys in the community. For one thing, and secondly,
Michael J: I was a hard worker and everybody liked me and I hung out
Michael J: at a bar fight about and ate at Subway a lot. And that was a little mini mart. What's the subway attached and
Michael J: And I'd get rear after hours. You know, I had the hookups people like me when I did get tweaked out. I would stay away so I wasn't, you know, wasn't obvious. Everybody knew I was a druggie low and that's that.
Michael J: Um, let's see what else. And that pretty much defined all that so
Michael J: Finally, I'm on the run from Pearl and they catch me and Garber ville. And I got to go to prison.
Michael J: I'm already been in and out of churches, I'd already started the process to get my life together. I had to go finish doing what I have and
Michael J: So what I got out. I came back to Crescent City. My mom, my dad had died years after that her roof started leaking and I had no place to go pro wanted me to go
Michael J: Move into the mission and Eureka, and I wasn't willing to do that. I said, send me back. I'll set my time out. I'm not going to mention, I'm not going to do it.
Michael J: And so anyway, my mom in a deal with me fix fix the butter damage inside the shoe rock, get the house cleaned up work on it. She gave me two weeks to visit was my three children, two and victim up for me and brought them to the House.
Michael J: Had to drive to your weekend a check in every month at that point in time and
Michael J: I'll help you, you help me get the house on the market or sell the house when the house sells. I'll give you 1000 bucks.
Michael J: Help you out by then I'd already built my relationship back up with my mom, and, was mending trying to figure out what to do. So I'm going to Bible study going to church every Sunday. I couldn't drink alcohol at my mom's house so
Michael J: Anyway, I met this biker Christian guy. And that's where I ultimately met my wife Rachel at a Bible study and
Michael J: I was a commercial fisherman. I had a job on a boat when Sam Cisco I made 40 grand and a crab season. And that was the money where we're going to use to get married, and she ended up getting pregnant and with my son Jacob.
Michael J: I had to get divorced from my first wife, we weren't together for 10 years 11 years something
Michael J: Like that.
Michael J: She was still married to a guy that was abusive to her. She had one son. This was my second chance of being a father good doing it the right way, according to the word of God to be able to you know make amends make up for the crappy stuff that I did put my other family through
Michael J: My wife.
Michael J: Was $200,000 in debt when they started daily bread ministries, as soon as I registered my social security number is a bill that passed started coming out me like the fact that you can imagine.
Michael J: Went from fishing on a boat making big money to stopping that going on welfare going on going on food stamps going on medical going for notes.
Michael J: Basically
Michael J: That lifestyle a decent money coming in, you know, Christian is feast and famine. So you weren't that two months doing grabs his and you make a big chunk. If you manage it right you do good, but course. I wasn't good.
Michael J: Enough and
Michael J: Money and CHILD SUFFER was all over me wanting me to pay for my hundred and 60,000 in child support.
Michael J: So anyway, started the ministry five years. Nobody got paid. We stayed on welfare, that whole time and finally figured out that we need to start getting paid. So my salary is 300 a week.
Michael J: Daphne that has her bachelor's degree that started with me. The ministry. A few years later.
Michael J: 300 a week.
Michael J: We've gotten some really fantastic donation since then we got our building paid off. We rented our building for seven years.
Serenna Beers: Mm hmm.
Michael J: And then we had an opportunity I find somebody that was 35 grand down and we went into a contract and we bought them daily bread and and 837 we were paying 1050 a month rent.
Michael J: 837 a month for the mortgage we paid 2000 every month got it down to 52,005 years and got a phone call last November of a lady that wanted to pay off for building and so paid it off. So we got the whole thing done in five years, once we started
Michael J: We were getting regular paydays that is still my salary. To this day, of course, I have a few benefits.
Michael J: Sharon. But other than that, it's pretty much
Michael J: That's it's a labor of love. It really is what we do. And that's all going to be changing. You know, down the road.
Michael J: My wife, like I say she's got another year left at college, and then enjoy her associate's degree and addiction studies and that's her dream. She wants to be
Michael J: She wants to run around.
Michael J: rehab center, so that's that's the five year plan that we're working towards
Serenna Beers: That's very, very cool.
Michael J: Yeah. And so in the meantime, four or five years ago I got all my bills paid off and I bought my first house at the age of 52 I'm 32 now.
Serenna Beers: Mm hmm.
Michael J: Well actually 51 and non so I've been paying on it for a year.
Michael J: Very cool. Yeah, my mom ended up getting Alzheimer's particular refer year and
Michael J: She ended up passing away in our home. We were renting it and she had left us $100,000
Michael J: Mm hmm. And I put that money down on the house and I have a nine years left on my mortgage. Actually, it's
Michael J: Eight years and 10 months left on my mortgage
Michael J: Now, so we didn't. So are we blast. Absolutely.
Serenna Beers: That's so awesome.
Michael J: Why do people have, you know, 10 your deals on their cars. So we're going to end up that we have good plans for the golden years might actually turn out to be golden
Serenna Beers: Hopeless sound wonderful
Michael J: Mission Possible ultimately on the new facility will on that my wife wants to turn the daily bread into a 30 bed rehab.
Michael J: And I would probably rent that to her for about 7500 a month.
Michael J: And then I would have to be the cut because that's kind of what I do now at at the ministry. Now for the homeless in the community. Anybody hungry as and we do restaurant style gourmet food we don't
Serenna Beers: That so so so cool.
Michael J: It's not a soup kitchen by any standard. Matter of fact I fire volunteers that do not put their item, you can tell somebody you love them all day long. Pretty soon. It's just a word, but we show people that we care through the quality of our food that we put on the table.
Michael J: Or in the to go box as a last few months, so
Michael J: Mashed potatoes and gravy homemade cakes. We don't mess around. We really literally done it's
Michael J: All of our food is super, super good.
Michael J: Restaurant quality eggs was Sunday breakfast I did scrub. I did 40,000 eggs.
Very
Michael J: A power line eight bound machines for scrambled eggs, cheese and
Michael J: Oh, and then we throw in biscuits and gravy on top of that and I make my own gravy. So
Serenna Beers: That's so good.
Serenna Beers: Hey, I'm gonna have to interject, though, because I've got about 20 minutes left. And I've still got
Serenna Beers: Some questions that I need to get through with with
Serenna Beers: Asia and so
Michael J: I can talk. I mean, I think that's okay. I totally get I could talk to outside of work, you know, I mean, I'm not so I understand you, hence why I was
Serenna Beers: Letting you talk to me.
Serenna Beers: As long as you wanted to talk
Serenna Beers: But now we're coming down to the wire. And if I don't answer these questions, or get them. I'm going to have my boss and
Serenna Beers: Why did
Serenna Beers: You. Yeah, so
Serenna Beers: So tell me,
Serenna Beers: Tell me in a snapshot
Serenna Beers: Just what growing up was like for you. Were you raised by both mom and dad.
Serenna Beers: Do you have brothers and sisters or your
Serenna Beers: Parents together. I know that your mom passed. Did you struggle struggle with mental health or addiction. Growing up, or did anybody else. So as as as on track as you possibly can. If you could answer those questions.
Michael J: Yeah mom and dad, my mom going to tolerate my dad wine and
Michael J: There was like I said some physical abuse mainly verbal
Michael J: And I know there was more to your question.
Michael J: I'm trying to figure out, okay,
Serenna Beers: Yeah so so growing up and maybe I'll just, I'll ask you them and then one by one. We'll just get through them because I probably through four or five out of it. Yeah, so just
Serenna Beers: Growing up was was family life. Like what did. Did it seem pretty normal. You know, outside of the normal things that families have, you know, everybody has difficulties grown grown up, but was there anything significant that stood out
Michael J: Yeah, my dad was a complete full blown alcoholic.
Michael J: Can use upsell
Michael J: Outside during the morning you go to school. Everything's fine. So my dad was a complete asshole in the morning. It was like he never apologized. He just started out he was a good guy in the morning when he was sober. Actually, most of the time he was still drunk.
Michael J: But no, it was nothing really normal the outside world thought we were the richest people in town, and we were had the perfect life.
Michael J: Inside the doors when the door shut, was
Michael J: A whole different ballgame.
Michael J: Okay. Plus, they didn't take care of their children. So therefore I was wants to
You know,
Michael J: So it was this one channel house to the fullest extent of the word.
Serenna Beers: Okay. Um, what about. Did you notice any other type of
Serenna Beers: dicta addictive behaviors, besides yourself that you've experienced with your family life. Did anybody else. I know dad was an. It was an alcoholic. But did anybody else. Yeah, deal with food or sex addiction or anything like that.
Michael J: So I have a sister raylene
Michael J: He tends to work. She's really dysfunctional.
Michael J: She
Michael J: Looked at her Facebook page looks like Mother Teresa her life does not represent that she tends to
Michael J: Fall in love. She's had many of our kids molested, but she tends to get with like a pile of people. So she's just function in a different kind of way. She don't drink Houston smoke, she quit smoking.
Michael J: He
Michael J: Are all our kids are they run away. She had a cleaning business, she was using them for slave labor and they get a team. They go to the military and all them are doing successful me personally. Yeah.
Michael J: They just got away from mom because my mom was like gonna put their hooks in them and and anyway other than hurts. She's like, really greedy.
And
Michael J: Doesn't make good healthy choices for kids.
Michael J: Relationships and sex addicts know I probably was one I used to still Buddhist from my dad. I was getting drunk do around 13
Michael J: Almost every single night.
Michael J: So, yeah.
Michael J: And I think that answered that part of it.
Serenna Beers: Yeah. And then what was school like did you graduate. Yeah.
Michael J: No. No, I did not.
Michael J: Okay, used to tell the lie, got my GED. But that was a lie and
Michael J: I, I made it. I made it to the night or not to the 11th grade.
Michael J: Mm hmm. Turned 18 and I left and went over the car and signed up with a GED. And when work and I never did complete high school
Michael J: Okay, and
Michael J: Okay, go ahead. Oh.
Serenna Beers: Had you struggled with any learning disabilities or was it just that you just didn't like school
Michael J: So I was supposed to wear glasses. I seen everything upside down, they discovered that I went to special ed class for a while and
Michael J: Was supposed to wear these glasses when I turned 16 I could get off the doctor said, No, you're gonna be wearing your whole life.
Michael J: I broke them through them away and said I never wearing them again. You lied to me basically look like a professor going through school got teased a lot to that.
Michael J: Basically
Michael J: Yeah, I had some issues there were totally and diagnose, but had a lot of issues.
Michael J: Mm hmm. And one thing that I've noticed that never happened and
Michael J: Just this last year, I've been noticing that like sometimes I'll cover up. Oh, I'm kind of having like some panic attacks and
Michael J: What else is it there's anxiety I have anxiety, now that I never used to have.
Michael J: Or I probably did I would drink it away whatever
Serenna Beers: You know, never really noticed it. Now you're more aware of that because you feel it.
Michael J: Right and and and my wife has all these conditions and Houston. I'm like, I used to take, you know, you're, you're crazy, you know, and I don't have any of this, but
Michael J: As time goes on like covers on I'll be freezing cold and I'll cover up and then I'll wake up in the middle of the night thinking I can't read.
Michael J: Like admin window open right now. We keep it pretty cold in our house and we don't not our house. But in our bedroom, for sure. And so it's called getting the blankets feels like too much waiting
Michael J: Lately, and more so than ever before.
Michael J: But, you know, and then I tried to get so security you know, because I wanted the free money, I
Michael J: Said I was hearing or seeing voices and trying to get the SSI thing going out of presenting and, you know, then one day I was like, I'm never going to just be able to live on $900 a month. What am I
Thinking
Michael J: So I just and I just had too much energy
Michael J: And that was another thing with the accident. I thought I'm going to snap out of this literally two days after getting out of the hospital with a bandaid wrapped around my head.
Michael J: I'm working
Michael J: The next day,
Michael J: And I was in a lot of pain.
Michael J: And I didn't get pills for a long time because of my history. I was red flag to the hospital.
Michael J: Sure. And it was after a lot of years that
Michael J: You know they they gave it to me again. And then I realized opiates. They help for pet, but they stopped working quickly. Either you got to double up on him either. You gotta get the stronger doses.
Michael J: They literally stopped working and I was on him for a year and a half. And when they just called my doctor and said, Take me off, and I'm done.
Michael J: I'm going to live in pain for a while. I just, I got sick of it. I just not like it didn't like how it made me feel and it was not working. That's the bottom line.
Serenna Beers: And wasn't working for me.
Serenna Beers: What about Dragon know haha. Um, well, I mean you could office track it as as as anybody does because here I am, I'm through a throwing all these
Serenna Beers: Questions and I'm asking you to talk about it, it makes sense to me that I what I like to call I squirrel out I squirrel out, so, so, so, so much so much to the point where my own kids will say, Mom. Okay, remember the question that I asked you. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
Serenna Beers: And I always call it
Serenna Beers: Meth brain like those are my permit tweet I that I have
Serenna Beers: A and and i I've, I've come to accept it. Over the years, but like there's some things that I still do some residuals from when I use because I use for almost 17 years straight and hardcore, just like you.
Serenna Beers: And it mess my brain up and and to think that I'm going to function like a person without that kind of history. I put holes in my brain. So yeah, you get off track.
Serenna Beers: It makes sense to me. So I, I want to say that and I hopefully I'm not coming off as like we need to stay on track. You know, it's just because I have a certain amount of time that that I can meet with you. And so I want to make sure we get everything
Serenna Beers: Answered after this. Any session I have with with you. You can go off on any rabbit trail that you want, because that's for you. It's what you need to
Serenna Beers: Talk about it's what you want to discuss. I mean, it's really you drive the boat I i'm i always refer to myself as
Serenna Beers: A farmer, I might be a therapist with education and experience. But at the end of the day, I'm planting seeds because the I'm I can't help you change anything, whether it's, you just want help with dealing with your
Serenna Beers: Diet. Or maybe you want help, and how to center your thoughts. I can give you all the tips, but nobody does anything for us. We have to do it for ourselves. So true. I'm right there with you is what I want to say, Michael.
Serenna Beers: Okay, and then really quickly. I think you you you already answered this. So I know you didn't go into the military mill Atari. And at this time, you don't have any financial or legal issues you're, you're kind of starting to get get like really
Michael J: way behind. You're living the dream right right now.
Michael J: Everything's good. Yeah.
Serenna Beers: That's so great. Okay. And then I know you are married to your wife and I know you have a son, but you only talked about the one son is there more than that.
Michael J: I have two boys and three girls.
Serenna Beers: Okay, okay.
Michael J: Past and Present. I have a six year old and a 14 year old now.
Michael J: Okay, my wife effect. So, we can have anymore. So, thank God I love kids.
Serenna Beers: Wow. Gosh, so you're doing the whole homeschool thing to
Michael J: Have it covered 19 is the best thing that ever happened to us because I go pretty much every single day was my daughter to the beach start to be Trump area.
Michael J: And we feed the squirrels and of course I get all free Brandon
Michael J: And birds and and
Michael J: We have the best relationship. We've just grown so close over less
Michael J: Bow. Yeah, she's, she's a doll. And when we meet again and we have a meeting, because I think, I think I like you. And I think, you know, I just, I don't know how much I can squeeze in there. A couple of months or something. But, uh,
Michael J: Yeah, I'll show you a picture of my doll actually introduce you to Eliana, she is. She's, she's been reading for three years and
Michael J: It is called
Michael J: Beauty and she's she she can literally pick up Rachel's books and read as fast faster than me. She's smarter than I am. I'm not lying.
Michael J: Words and her mannerisms and and we go birdwatching and she's you know she's into the environment.
Michael J: She's super cool. You'll, you'll ever
Michael J: Great. Yeah, well,
Serenna Beers: I think that you answered everything for me. And so what I'm going to do really quick, is I'm just going to while I got you on the line here.
Serenna Beers: I'm going to pull up what it says inside your chart because I don't say like when they're recommending that I meet up with you. And if you're good with it. I know we usually like to at least say twice a month.
Serenna Beers: Individual therapy twice a month. So if you're good with that I will go ahead and all set us up in appointment while I have you on the phone.
My email.
Michael J: Email
Michael J: So,
Michael J: I'll wait.
Serenna Beers: Wait, wait.
Michael J: I probably do.
Michael J: You see a Gmail.
Serenna Beers: And I'm sure it's got to be on here. Let me see.
Michael J: And then I gotta give you my web address to I want you to check out our website and that'll tell you more about who I am, what we do and all that.
Serenna Beers: Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to that Monday that I need to schedule you and I'm going to write your information down on that. So I have it there.
Serenna Beers: And
Michael J: Then you can email me a reminder, because I'm really bad. I mean, I write stuff down still on paper on my calendar and try to keep up on it, but I would just keep it up with Dr. Ella DAG is is as hard i Mr. Wonderful.
Michael J: Mechanism. Yeah. And I literally just went by it, I was like it was 20 minutes late. And I'm like, Oh, no. But yeah, I am a little techie. Now, I used to not be
Serenna Beers: Thanks to my boss, really good.
Serenna Beers: Lucky
Michael J: I did all this stuff by myself. Normally I have people help me get even takes forever. And it just kind of fell into play.
Serenna Beers: That's good. So does nine o'clock work.
Serenna Beers: Is not for you for you and I. On May 11. Yep.
Michael J: That Monday. Yeah.
Serenna Beers: Yep.
Serenna Beers: Okay, we're okay. So I'm putting down Michael J. Correct. That's your last
Serenna Beers: Initial and data will follow up.
Serenna Beers: And then just me your web address really quick.
Michael J: So it's our own way that you want the website or the email.
Both
Michael J: Okay. Email is our oh you our daily bread CC for crescent city@gmail.com
Michael J: Okay. And then our website is daily bread cc.org
Serenna Beers: OK, I will check that out.
Michael J: Then what Monday. And what was the date on that.
Serenna Beers: May 11 and I'm going to email scheduling right now so that they put you on my calendar so that there's no mistakes.
Michael J: at 9am and then. So yeah, Wednesday, Thursday, me and my son are going on a fishing trip and so that'll be wednesday thursday back Friday. So yeah, that should work out. Okay.
Serenna Beers: God on my schedule for 511 at 9am PST okay well Michael it. It was nice to TO MEET. MEET you personally and hear a little bit about your
Serenna Beers: journey in life, it's it's it's really quite interesting. And I always like to hear a good praise story. You know, I don't ever impose my views on anyone. But I also I shared the same viewpoint. And so I always say Celebrate. When I hear that, you know,
Serenna Beers: God
Serenna Beers: God re received another one of his warriors, for lack of better terms, but so I look forward to our meeting on May 11 and you take care. Until then, enjoy your time with your family and I will see you on the 11th at nine o'clock.
Michael J: It's not
Michael J: As oh yeah one one just word for the, the thought.
Michael J: Is Jesus never, you know, he gives you. He doesn't force it. He doesn't pull un he you're either drawn in or you're drawn away from him. He doesn't want to force anything, and he wants to give everybody that wants that self conscious choice. And that's how I believe about it.
Michael J: So when I say I'm the liberal is faster around
Michael J: Yeah, I bet. That's my only advice that I have
Michael J: And I get good
Michael J: Every time I put I can have a new classical by my wife for new car today. I can buy me a new truck.
Michael J: And it would destroy the ministry days ago. He's already made it. You don't need us no more. But my point being, then that if I get new tires on my truck. My, my 30 YEAR OLD PICKUP, THAT I drive around a dodge. It's nice. Don't get me wrong.
Michael J: They tell me about it. Wow, those are nice tires. Yeah, I'm paying them off 50 bucks a month or less, Rob.
Michael J: You know, can I not have good tires. I kind of stuff. Oh, and don't wear a shiny. Watch. Oh my god, don't dress up i mean i can i can do at this point I dressed really nice. I
Michael J: I wear a low rider jeans nice shirts and have a nice chain and I have a one and I got an $8 ring and they look at that ring and try to and I and I tell them right away or cost $8 I bought it on Amazon. Okay.
Michael J: But they'll look at my pants. Now, now it's the pants. Wow, those are hundred $80 jeans. Yeah, they are. And I love them.
Serenna Beers: You gotta be able to be you. Right.
Michael J: Yeah, yeah. And so once once the grant funding thing goes on in the rehab starts
Michael J: I can pretty much for me being my own person. And then what I want. I won't be relying on public funds like
Michael J: In that sense, you know, Mission Possible. She can buy a new car tomorrow and it's all good. Because she gets her money from other sources. So anyway, was great, talking with you and I'll
Serenna Beers: Thank you.
Serenna Beers: Nice to talk with you too, and I'll see you may 11 at 9am
Michael J: Sounds good. Thanks.
Michael J: So much
Serenna Beers: Okay.
Serenna Beers: Bye Bye bye.